Welcome, everyone to this Svelte workshop.
Coming to you from Gorgeous, Minneapolis,
one of the things you cannot tell from
watching frontend masters videos, is that
we are not in fact in a great prison.
We are on the 36th floor
of a building in downtown,
Minneapolis with some stunning views,
especially on a day like today.
I've been looking forward to this for
a really long time.
I'm really happy that you can join us,
hopefully we're gonna have
some fun in this course.
We're gonna be spending
a lot of time together, so
let me introduce myself a little bit.
My name is Rich, I'm a principal
software engineer at the cell.
I live in New York City,
Brooklyn, specifically,
though as you can tell from my accent,
I am not from there.
Things I love include music, I'm
a trombonist, there's no trombone emoji,
so we have to settle for this nonsense,
I like climbing, cycling, swimming,
cooking, cheese, beer, mountains,
and I love writing software.
I got into software in a little
bit of a roundabout way.
After university, I fell into journalism
at a time when the gray-haired men running
newsrooms were trying to figure out
this thing called the Internet.
And there was a lot of cache in
being able to understand computers.
And some of the most forward looking
newsrooms were using JavaScript to do new
kinds of journalism, that involved
interactivity, and personalization, and
visual presentations of data.
I was young, and I was hungry,
and I wanted a piece of it.
So I started learning web development
with the help of some friends.
And what I very quickly discovered is that
it is really hard, too hard to build apps
on the web that work reliably across
browsers and across form factors,
especially when you're dealing
with things like transitions, and
animations as a core primitive for
communicating concepts.
And this is doubly true when you're
working in the high-pressure environment
of a newsroom, where you're constantly
working towards a deadline.
So right from the very beginning of my
journey as a software development, I have
been passionate about making it easier for
people to build things on the web.
Not just people who build things on
the web for a living, but also people who
aren't constantly immersed in the soap
opera of front-end development.
All of that is what led to
the origin of Svelte in 2016.
Svelte began almost as an experiment
designed to answer the following question,
what if we let compilers
do the hard work for us?
I've been working on it for almost seven
years at this point, for most of that time
it was kind of a side project, for the
last 18 months or so, it's been my full
time gig at the cell, which has been
a friend of the project for a long time.
A lot of things have changed during that
time but the mission has stayed the same,
to make building stuff on the web easy and
fun.
Luckily, I haven't had to do it alone,
Svelte and SvelteKit have had hundreds of
contributors supported by an army of
community builders, and content creators,
and financial backers, through tens of
thousands of Svelte developers around
the world, if not more, and it's
a really fun community to be a part of.
And if you go to svelte.dev/chat, you can
join our Discord, and in fact, I believe
there are some people in the Discord
watching this together live right now, hi?
They even made a documentary about us,
which you can watch on YouTube,
it's called Svelte Origins.
So that's the back story.
If you're here, I'm gonna assume that you
are interested in learning Svelte and
SvelteKit, and so I'm not gonna blather
on anymore about why you should learn
those things, instead,
we're gonna get into some housekeeping.
Firstly, who is this course for?
Well, it's for
everyone who builds stuff on the web, or
wants to build stuff on the web.
If you've never used a framework before,
that's fine.
If your day job is working with
things like React, that's also fine.
The only real requirement is that
you do need to know html, CSS,
and at least a bit of JavaScript.
Later on, you will need to be able
to use Node in the command line,
you do not need to be
an expert in those things.
We're also gonna dabble with
a little bit of TypeScript.
Although, again,
if you're not a TypeScript wizard,
don't let that put you off.
It's gonna be fine.
We're gonna cover the basic concepts,
then we're gonna learn some advanced
techniques, and then we're gonna
put it all together by building a game,
specifically this game called Emachi.
We've got a lot of material to get
through, so let's get into it.
Internet are you ready?
Attendees are you ready?
Don't think the Internet can hear you,
attendees are you ready?
>> Yeah.
>> All right, let's get into it.